{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15980\viewh16260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 Five By Five Badge Kit - Instructions
\b0\fs24 \
\
Recommended order of assembly:\
(last updated:  Dec 17, 2012)\
\
1.) R1 - 22k Resistor << red/red/brown/red/brown (on blue body) >> The polarity does not matter.\
\
2.) R2 - 10k Resistor << brown/black/orange/gold >> The polarity does not matter.\
\
3.) C1 - 0.1uF Capacitor (yellowish, marked with 104). The polarity does not matter.\
\
4.) S1 - Switch (Button). Direction of switch does not matter, as long as it fits!\
\
5.) U1 - 8-pin socket.  Be sure to match orientation "notch" shown on the board. The chip will go into this socket later.\
\
6.) C2 - 100uF Capacitor (black). Positive (+) wire is longer. Be aware of polarity!\
\
7.) Q1 - PNP Transistor. Orientation matters!  Match shape shown on board.\
The middle wire will be bent upward to fit. \
Try to mount in a way that it leans slightly away from the socket to accommodate the chip later on.\
\
8.) J3 - 2x3 Header. This is marked as PGM on board.\
The longer pins should be facing upward and the shorter part goes into the board. \
\
8-B.) J1 - 1x2 Header. This is marked as BAT on board.\
This step is optional, so don't worry if your kit didn't include this part!\
The longer pins should be facing outward (away from board) and the shorter part goes into the board. \
\
9.) LED1.  (Located at the top left of board)\
For each LED, the board is marked with A and K.\
A = Anode (+) Longer wire\
K = Cathode (-) Shorter wire\
Be careful about the polarity.\
For each LED, it is best to solder one wire first.  Then, check if the LED is straight.  \
Adjust if necessary by heating just that wire, and pressing on the LED to straighten it.\
Once it is nice and straight, solder the other wire.\
\
10.) Solder the rest of the LEDs.  Try one at a time.  Once you are comfortable, you may do a whole row of 5 together.\
\
11.) Plug in your chip. Orientation matters! \
The imprinted dot on the chip marks pin 1. \
Pin 1 must be on the same side as the notch on the board.\
\
12.) Test board:\
First, insert coin battery in the coin battery holder.  Make sure the "+" side of battery is facing outward.\
Then, insert the coin holder onto the location marked on the backside of board WITHOUT soldering it.\
Instead, just hold it tight.\
You should see the LEDs start to show a message.\
If everything looks ok, take coin battery out and solder battery holder in place.\
\
Note: If your chip is partially programmed, a message should scroll, but the top row of LEDs will not light up.  That is normal.\
\
13.) If necessary, perform additional programming on the chip (i.e. using  "make program").  \
This will require a special AVR programming adapter.\
\
14.) Attach optional cord (lanyard).\
\
}